# LeetCode Problem: Contains Duplicate

## Problem Description
Given an integer array `nums`, return `true` if any value appears at least twice in the array, and return `false` if every element is distinct.

## Solutions

### Brute Force Approach
#### Short Description
- This approach checks for duplicates by comparing each element with every other element in the array.
- It uses a nested loop where the outer loop iterates over each element and the inner loop checks for duplicates from the current index onward.

#### Time Complexity
The time complexity of this solution is $O(n^2)$, where `n` is the size of the array. This is due to the nested loop which results in quadratic time complexity.

#### Space Complexity
The space complexity is $O(1)$ as it does not require any additional space.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        for i in range(0, len(nums)):
            for j in range(i+1, len(nums)):
                if nums[i] == nums[j]:
                    return True
        return False
```

#### Note
- This solution is very slow and inefficient for large arrays!
- This solution is **not accepted** by LeetCode due to its high time complexity!


### Sort and Search Approach
#### Short Description
- This approach sorts the array first and then checks for duplicates by comparing each element with its adjacent element.
- If any two adjacent elements are the same, the function returns `True`.

#### Time Complexity
The time complexity of this solution is $O(n log n)$ due to the sorting step.

#### Space Complexity
The space complexity is $O(1)$ or $O(n)$, as the sorting step may require additional space depending on the sorting algorithm used.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        nums.sort()
        for i in range(len(nums) - 1):
            if nums[i] == nums[i + 1]:
                return True
        return False
```


### Using Python Sets
#### Short Description
This approach uses a set to keep track of unique elements encountered while iterating through the array. If an element is found in the set, it means the element is a duplicate and the function returns `True`. Otherwise, the element is added to the set.

#### Time Complexity
The time complexity of this solution is $O(n)$, where `n` is the size of the array.

#### Space Complexity
The space complexity is $O(n)$ due to the additional space required for the set.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        unique = set()
        for n in nums:
            if n in unique:
                return True
            unique.add(n)
        return False
```

#### Note
- This is the fastest solution among the three discussed.
- The set data structure helps achieve constant time complexity for lookups and insertions.

## Conclusion
- Among the three approaches, the set-based solution is the most efficient with a linear time complexity of O(n).
- The sort-and-search approach is also efficient but involves a higher time complexity due to sorting.
- The brute force approach, while simple to understand, is highly inefficient and not suitable for large input sizes.
