# LeetCode Problem: [Valid Anagram](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-anagram/description/)

## Problem Description
Given two strings `s` and `t`, write a function to determine if `t` is an anagram of `s`.

## Solutions

### Solution-1:
#### Short Description
This solution uses a hash map (dictionary) to count the frequency of each character in both strings. It first checks if the lengths of the strings are equal. If not, it returns `False`. Then, it increments the count for each character in the first string and decrements the count for each character in the second string. If all counts return to zero, the strings are anagrams; otherwise, they are not.

#### Time Complexity
The time complexity of this solution is $O(n)$, where `n` is the length of the strings. This is because we iterate through each string only once.

#### Space Complexity
The space complexity is $O(n)$, since the dictionary will contain a fixed number of character counts (at most 26 if only lower-case English letters are used).

```python
class Solution:
    def isAnagram(self, s: str, t: str) -> bool:
        if len(s) != len(t):
            return False
        dic = {}
        for i in range(0, len(s)):
            if s[i] in dic:
                dic[s[i]] += 1
            else:
                dic[s[i]] = 1
        
        for i in range(0, len(t)):
            if t[i] in dic:
                dic[t[i]] -= 1
                if dic[t[i]] < 0:
                    return False
            else:
                return False
        return True
```


### Solution-2:
#### Short Description
This solution sorts both strings and compares them. If the sorted strings are identical, then the original strings are anagrams.

#### Time Complexity
The time complexity of this solution is $O(n log n)$ due to the sorting operations, where `n` is the length of the strings.

#### Space Complexity
The space complexity is $O(1)$ or $O(n)$ depending on the sorting algorithm used, since creating the sorted versions of the strings requires additional space proportional to the length of the strings.

```python
class Solution:
    def isAnagram(self, s: str, t: str) -> bool:
        return sorted(s) == sorted(t)
```

## Conclusion
- Both solutions are effective in determining if two strings are anagrams.
- The first solution uses a hash map to achieve linear time complexity but requires extra space for the dictionary.
- The second solution is simpler and more concise but involves sorting, resulting in a higher time complexity.
- Depending on the constraints and requirements, either solution can be appropriate.
